---
title: Release Notes for Version 1.7.3
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/1.7.3/
date: '2014-05-30'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Highlights Known Issues Reminder Credits Test Results Introduction You can read the official announcement at Apache jclouds 1.7.3 released . You can read the details of the specific JIRA issues addressed in this release at the JIRA Release Notes . To get jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Highlights ElasticStack is back. The elasticstack API has been fixed and the elastichosts-* Providers are in good working condition again. The swift API and cloudfiles-us & cloudfiles-uk Providers have been deprecated as of jclouds 1.7.2. They will be replaced with the openstack-swift API and rackspace-cloudfiles-us & rackspace-cloudfiles-uk & hpcloud-objectstorage Providers in jclouds 2.0. The new APIs and providers have been updated to the current jclouds interface style and are fully region aware. These APIs are new to jclouds and hence are in Beta. That means we need people to use it and give us feedback . Based on that feedback, minor changes to the interfaces may happen. This code will replace org.jclouds.openstack.swift.SwiftClient in jclouds 2.0 and it is recommended you adopt it sooner than later. You can get the new Swift and Cloud Files dependencies with: <dependencies> <dependency> <groupId> org.apache.jclouds.labs </groupId> <artifactId> openstack-swift </artifactId> <version> 1.7.3 </version> </dependency> <dependency> <groupId> org.apache.jclouds.labs </groupId> <artifactId> rackspace-cloudfiles-us </artifactId> <version> 1.7.3 </version> </dependency> <dependency> <groupId> org.apache.jclouds.labs </groupId> <artifactId> rackspace-cloudfiles-uk </artifactId> <version> 1.7.3 </version> </dependency> </dependencies> Here is the Javadoc for the new Swift and Cloud Files classes. Known Issues jclouds 1.7.3 is incompatible with Guava 16 and 17. Please switch to Guava 15.0 or earlier, or wait for jclouds 1.8. Reminder The jclouds Maven group ID for versions since 1.6.1-incubating is org.apache.jclouds rather than org.jclouds , so a pom.xml dependency would now look like: <dependencies> <dependency> <groupId> org.apache.jclouds </groupId> <artifactId> jclouds-all </artifactId> <version> 1.7.3 </version> </dependency> </dependencies> Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release. Check out who has been busy here . Test Results Please see the discussion thread and the vote thread for test results for 1.7.3.
