---
title: Release Notes for Version 1.7.1
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/1.7.1/
date: '2014-02-11'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction jclouds version 1.7.1 is the third release of jclouds as an Apache TLP. You can read the official announcement at Apache jclouds 1.7.1 released . You can read the details of the specific JIRA issues addressed in this release at the JIRA Release Notes . To get jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Notable updates A workaround for JCLOUDS-427 is provided to make jclouds compatible with JRE 1.7.0_51-b13. Added the DigitalOcean compute provider. It is available in labs under the following Maven coordinates: <dependencies> <dependency> <groupId> org.apache.jclouds.labs </groupId> <artifactId> digitalocean </artifactId> <version> 1.7.1 </version> </dependency> </dependencies> Upgraded Bouncycastle to version 1.49. Added an HTTP driver based on the OkHttp library for efficient HTTP connections. Added support for PATCH methods that have a body. Allow configuring of networks to which the nodes will be attached directly from the portable Compute interface. Notes jclouds 1.7.1 is incompatible with Guava 16. Please switch to
Guava 15.0 or earlier, or wait for jclouds 1.8. Reminder As per 1.6.1-incubating , the jclouds Maven group ID has changed from org.jclouds to org.apache.jclouds so a pom.xml dependency would now look like: <dependencies> <dependency> <groupId> org.apache.jclouds </groupId> <artifactId> jclouds-all </artifactId> <version> 1.7.1 </version> </dependency> </dependencies> Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Ignasi Barrera for managing the release. Andrew Phillips for his quick and diligent fixes for JCLOUDS-427 . Apache jclouds PMC for verifying. Check out who has been busy here . Test Results Please see the release discussion thread for test results for 1.7.1.
