---
title: Release Notes for Version 1.9.1
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/1.9.1/
date: '2015-08-06'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Core Compute improvements BlobStore improvements API Changes Known Issues Credits Test Results Introduction You can read the official announcement at Apache jclouds 1.9.1 released . You can read the details of the specific JIRA issues addressed in this release at the JIRA Release Notes . To get started with jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Core improvements Added an option to mark Payloads as sensitive to avoid exposing sensitive information. Restrict agentproxies to netcat when using the ssh-agent. Compute improvements Added d2, m4 and t2 instance types for EC2. Added the DigitalOcean v2 provider. Added the Nova os-hypervisors extension. Implemented the portable ComputeService in ProfitBricks. Added support for specifying GCE disk type in compute abstraction. BlobStore improvements Copy blob support (server-side copy on Azure, S3, GCS, and Swift, emulated on other providers). Many improvements to Google Cloud Storage. Improved support for metadata and multipart operations. API Changes Replaced Rackspace Cloudfiles provider with modern openstack-swift code. Known Issues Google Cloud Storage cannot upload InputStream payloads. Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release. Daniel Broudy for many improvements to Google Compute and Google Cloud Storage Francesco Chicchiriccò for his advice in the development of the Azure compute provider and for heliping running the live tests. Shrinand Javadekar for running the live tests for several Blob Store providers. Check out who has been busy on Open Hub . Test Results Please see the discussion thread and the vote thread for test results for 1.9.1.
