---
title: Release Notes for Version 2.0.0
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/2.0.0/
date: '2016-11-15'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Release Highlights Compute Improvements BlobStore Improvements Known Issues Credits Test Results Introduction Apache jclouds 2.0 represents a significant milestone for the project. We are proud to support all major cloud providers in the marketplace with a mature, stable, codebase that is ready for production. You can read the official announcement here . To get started with jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Release Highlights Apache jclouds 2.0 features include: Wider compatibility with the Guava and Guice libraries. Configuration of arbitrary hardware values in the compute abstraction. Many additions to the blobstore portable abstraction. Added support for new compute providers: Microsoft Azure Resource Manager ProfitBricks v3 OneAndOne Added support for new blob store providers: Backblaze B2 Better integration with OSGi and Apache Karaf. Numerous bug fixes and performance improvements. The complete list of fixed issues and improvements can be found here . We have also improved our CI system by adding compatibility builds with the core libraries and OSGi framework, and by adding weekly builds that run the live tests. Check it out! Compute Improvements Added support for Microsoft Azure ARM, ProfitBricks v3 and OneAndOne. Configuration of arbitrary hardware values (CPU, memory and disk space) in the compute abstraction. Read more about this useful feature developed as part of a GSoC 2016 project! Added ap-northeast-2 (Seoul) and ap-south-1 (Mumbai) regions to AWS. Implemented the compute abstraction in CloudSigma v2. Added the cloudsigma2-mia (Miami) region to CloudSigma v2. Promoted Docker and OAuth APIs to the main repo. The groupId for their respective dependencies changes to org.apache.jclouds.api . Promoted Google Compute Engine and ProfitBricks providers to the main repo. The groupId for their respective dependencies changes to org.apache.jclouds.provider . BlobStore Improvements Added support for the Backblaze B2 API. Removed legacy swift API (superseded by openstack-swift). Removed discontinued hpcloud-objectstorage provider. Revamped multi-part upload, including listing contents and aborting operations. Support for server-side copying of blobs. Support for listing blobs via prefix and delimiter. Support modification and retrieval of container and blob ACLs. Cleaned up percent encoding, enabling use of non-ASCII characters. Known Issues The JSON credentials file used in Google Cloud cannot be used in the jclouds CLI for Google Cloud Storage and for Google Compute Engine, when using a reusable compute service. Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Rita Zhang and her team, especially Jim Spring and Janne Koskinen , for their contributions to the Microsoft Azure ARM provider ant the OAuth APIs. Josef Cacek for all his contributions to the Docker provider. Ali Bazlamit for adding support for the ProfitBricks v3 and the OneAndOne providers. Iván Lomba for choosing jclouds for his GSoC 2016 project and adding the support for arbitrary CPU and RAM values in the compute abstraction. Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release. Check out who has been busy on Open Hub . Test Results Please see the discussion and the vote threads for live test results for 2.0.0: RC1 vote and discussion threads. RC2 vote and discussion threads. RC3 vote and discussion threads.
