---
title: Release Notes for Version 1.9.2
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/1.9.2/
date: '2016-01-16'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Credits Test Results Introduction You can read the official announcement at Apache jclouds 1.9.2 released . To get started with jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . This is a bugfix release. The following list shows the fixed issues and improvements: Bug JCLOUDS-991 - Usage records for Volume usage allow a size field not handled by JClouds. JCLOUDS-1004 - Update the Go2Cloud endpoint. JCLOUDS-1012 - project and projectId not supported in JClouds as parameters in a usage record for Cloudstack. JCLOUDS-1020 - Docker BuildOptions use wrong query parameter for image tagging. JCLOUDS-1021 - Add JavaDoc to repoTags() value in org.jclouds.docker.domain.Image. JCLOUDS-1022 - Provide a mechanism to deal with the rate limit in DigitalOcean. JCLOUDS-1023 - DigitalOcean throws an NPE in the getImage() method if the image does not exist. JCLOUDS-1024 - The ImageExtension fails to create image if droplet is already stopped. JCLOUDS-1027 - digitalocean2 request incorrect droplet. Improvement JCLOUDS-1010 - Test Dockerfile: Consider using DropBear in Busybox instead of OpenSSH in Ubuntu. JCLOUDS-1014 - Docker: Add possibility to change loginPort. New Feature JCLOUDS-891 - Add CloudSigma Miami region. JCLOUDS-1001 - Add Google Compute preemptible support. JCLOUDS-1017 - Add tagImage() method to ImageApi in Docker provider. Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release. Josef Cacek for all his contributions to the Docker provider. Check out who has been busy on Open Hub . Test Results Please see the discussion thread and the vote thread for test results for 1.9.2.
