---
title: Release Notes for Version 2.0.1
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/2.0.1/
date: '2017-02-27'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Release Highlights Known Issues Credits Test Results Introduction Apache jclouds 2.0.1 is the first bugfix release after jclouds 2.0. It comes with several bugfixes and performance improvements, and with the addition of two new compute providers to labs: Packet and Vagrant . You can read the official announcement here . To get started with jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Release Highlights Apache jclouds 2.0.1 new features include: Added the SecurityGroupExtension and support to configure node inbound ports in Azure ARM. Added the load balancer APIs to Azure ARM. Added the Packet compute provider in labs. Add the org.apache.jclouds.labs/packet dependency to check it out! Added the Vagrant compute api in labs. Add the org.apache.jclouds.labs/vagrant dependency to check it out! Bugs and patches JCLOUDS-819 - Allow prepending a custom user agent JCLOUDS-1133 - JDK Script support for Ubuntu >= 16.04 Compute tests JCLOUDS-1206 - Handling of user_data in digitalocean2 provider is broken JCLOUDS-1208 - Implement the TemplateOptions.inboundPorts in ProfitBricks REST JCLOUDS-1212 - Replace custom bundles for Okio and OkHttp for the ServiceMix ones JCLOUDS-1213 - S3: Region is not respected JCLOUDS-1219 - Add support for Packet.net JCLOUDS-1220 - Managing the header name in the TempAuth (Identity Protocol v1) JCLOUDS-1222 - UserPrincipalNotFound with a french Windows JCLOUDS-1224 - Update B2 domain JCLOUDS-1231 - Implement the SecurityGroupExtension and the inbound ports feature JCLOUDS-1235 - openstack-nova: list-security-groups request is slow, with O(n^2) behaviour JCLOUDS-1237 - IpPermission#compareTo is inconsistent with equals JCLOUDS-1239 - Gzipped userdata not handled in openstack-nova debug logging The complete list of fixed issues and improvements can be found here . Known Issues The Azure ARM image extension creates images that cannot be re-deployed. Images are created successfully but the OS provisioning fails with a timeout. Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Svetoslav Neykov for his support on the karaf integration and for having contributed the Vagrant provider. Ali Bazlamit for the continued contributions to the ProfitBricks and OneAndOne providers. Daniel Estevez for his contributions to the Azure ARM load balancer APIs. The Packet team for helping with testing infrastructure. Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release. Check out who has been busy on Open Hub . Test Results Please see the discussion and the vote threads for live test results for 2.0.1: RC1 vote and discussion threads. RC2 vote and discussion threads.
