---
title: Release Notes for Version 2.0.3
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/2.0.3/
date: '2017-11-30'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Release Highlights Known Issues Credits Test Results Introduction Apache jclouds 2.0.3 is the third bugfix release after jclouds 2.0 and comes with several bugfixes and performance improvements. You can read the official announcement here . To get started with jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Release Highlights Apache jclouds 2.0.3 new features include: Fixed compilation issues in Java 1.8. Completed the provider APIs in the DimensionData provider needed to support the Compute abstraction. Added the Amazon China Beijing region. Support custom-data and added the VirtualMachineScaleSet APIs to Azure ARM. Updated ProfitBricks to the latest API version. Added B2 native prefix and delimiter support. Bugs and patches JCLOUDS-831 - Use the GroupNamingConvention to generate the names JCLOUDS-981 - Azure: remove mandatory virtual network creation JCLOUDS-1194 - Java 1.8 compilation issue JCLOUDS-1255 - Add support for Dimension Data JCLOUDS-1256 - Inifinite recursion in BoxConfig(File, Image) JCLOUDS-1258 - Amazon China Beijing Region Support JCLOUDS-1282 - Support custom-data in Azure ARM template options JCLOUDS-1314 - B2 native prefix and delimiter support JCLOUDS-1327 - putBlob with zero length Inputstream is failing on google-cloud-storage JCLOUDS-1328 - Update ProfitBricks to the latest API version JCLOUDS-1329 - Azure ARM extraneous resources are not cleaned up on node deletion JCLOUDS-1342 - Azure-ARM Virtual Machine Scale Set Support JCLOUDS-1351 - AWS CentOS marketplace AMI misdetecting OS type JCLOUDS-1358 - putBlob with zero length InputSteam is failing for aws s3 The complete list of fixed issues and improvements can be found here . Known Issues There are a number of open JIRA issues related to OpenStack endpoint and API version support: JCLOUDS-114 , JCLOUDS-773 and JCLOUDS-1197 . In particular, jclouds does not currently support OpenStack Keystone v3; the community is currently actively working on that . Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Jim Spring for his contributions to the Azure ARM provider. Trevor Flanagan for his continued support on the DimensionData provider. Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release. Check out who has been busy on Open Hub . Test Results Please see the discussion and the vote threads for live test results for 2.0.3: RC1 vote and discussion threads.
