---
title: Release Notes for Version 2.1.0
url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/2.1.0/
date: '2018-02-21'
author: ''
feed_url: https://jclouds.apache.org/releasenotes/atom.xml
---
Introduction Release Highlights Compute Improvements BlobStore Improvements Credits Test Results Introduction Apache jclouds 2.1.0 represents an important milestone for the project. We are proud to support all major cloud providers in the marketplace with a mature, stable, codebase that is ready for production. You can read the official announcement here . To get started with jclouds, please see the jclouds installation guide . Release Highlights Apache jclouds 2.1.0 highlights include: Modernize OpenStack support, up to OpenStack Pike. See also keystone v3 and OpenStack Nova and Neutron blog posts. Graduate Microsoft Azure Resource Manager to core. Graduate Packet to core. Better support for AWS EC2 in terms of network capabilities and regions. Graduate Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Backblaze B2 to core. Better integration with OSGi and Apache Karaf. Numerous bug fixes and performance improvements. Compatible with Java 9 with --add-modules java.xml.bind . Remove Clojure bindings. Upgraded Guava to version 18. The complete list of fixed issues and improvements can be found here . Compute Improvements Add Support OpenStack Keystone v3 API. Promote OpenStack Neutron to core. Better support of OpenStack Neutron from OpenStack Nova. Add support for Dimension Data. Add Azure Virtual Machine Scale Set support. Add support for Azure AD authentication using Service Principal. Add Azure KeyVault support. Improve OAuth capabilities adding filter customization per request. Update ProfitBricks to the latest API version. Add InternetGatewayApi and RouteTableApi to AWS EC2. Add support for R4 instance types in AWS EC2. Add Paris region to AWS EC2. Add Network API set feature add to SoftLayer provider. BlobStore Improvements Improve Atmos compatibility. Support GCS temporary signed URLs. Add Azure Cool Blob Storage. Add storage tiers to all providers and portable abstraction. Allow larger Azure uploads. Improve multipart upload performance. Credits jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: Jim Micheal Spring for his contributions to the Microsoft Azure ARM provider and the OAuth APIs. Geoff Macartney for all his contributions to the OpenStack and AWS providers. William Chen for his help with SoftLayer. Apache jclouds PMC and community for verifying the release, particularly to Ignasi Barrera for all his help with OpenStack and Azure ARM and the project management, in general. Check out who has been busy on Open Hub . Test Results Please see the discussion and the vote threads for live test results for 2.1.0: RC1 vote and discussion threads. RC2 vote and discussion threads. RC3 vote and discussion threads.
